All right so for the power rule will actually do a couple of exercises just because of how important
this rule is.
So let's get started with find prime vivax if f of x equals x to the sex let's you pause the video and
give it a shot.
All right so we're looking for prime IVAX.
So remember that we have a mnemonic for power rule and it is we bring our dictator down because it's
in power so our dictator is in power and it's the xponent.
So what we do is we bring it down and we substitute by a less power for leader.
So this six we subtract one from it.
All right.
So first thing let's go ahead and bring our dictator down.
So the six comes down multiply we keep the X and we substitute a less powerful leader.
So the exponent will be six minus one.
And that is equal to 6 x and 6 minus one is 5.
So 6 x 2 the fifth power and we are done.
This is our answer
see the power rule is extremely easy to do.
And once we do a couple of these problems it'll hopefully become like second nature to you.
All right.
Let's do a couple of others.
OK.
So find Ephriam of X if X equals x to the tenth power.
Again we use the power rule and I'll let you pause it and give it a shot.
All right so a derivative of
fallbacks and then we have the same thing so we bring our dictator down.
The 10 comes down multiplying X and we substitute by a less powerful leader.
So remember all we do is we take one out from the exponent so that becomes ten minus one
and we have 10 x to the 10 minus 1.
So to the ninth power and that is it.
That is our answer.
You see that the most important derivative role is as easy as this.
All right.
That's it.
So let's do another one find prime of X if half of X equals x to the negative 3.
So now we have a negative exponent.
I'll let you pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So
looking for private facts
the fact that this is negative does not change a single thing.
All right.
So we still bring down a dictator and we substituted by a last power for a leader.
So we bring down or negative three multiplying negative 3 x and then on the top we substitute a less
powerful leader.
So this becomes negative three minus one.
See the same thing.
So that equals negative three x two which exponents what is negative three minus one.
So if you vote three dollars and then you spend one more dollar.
Now you owe four dollars right.
So this becomes X to the negative for income.
So at this point we're technically done.
However something else you can do is you can actually take this to the negative four and you can bring
it to the bottom with a fliped exponent.
So that's a rule in algebra if we haven't looked at that yet.
We'll look at it later.
But just so you know we can go ahead and then keep the negative three on the top.
And this acts to the negative fourth comes to the bottom but it comes with a positive exponent.
All right.
So it comes like this.
And this is our answer.
All right.
So let's do a weird one.
All right so find prime of x f f of x equals 1 over x to the 7th.
So how would you do this one.
This can be a tricky one but I'll let you take a shot at it and see how you do.
So please pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So were you able to figure this out.
If not.
Don't feel bad.
It is a trick you want again.
So in the current form that we have we do not have access to the end.
Right.
Because this here we have access to the end.
But it's in the bottom of a fraction.
So before we do anything with derivatives we need to transform this one so that it looks like next to
the end.
And this is related to the last problem we just did.
Remember that if you have for example x to the end on the bottom to bring it to the top you can do it
but you need to flip the sign of this xponent.
All right.
So one overacts to the servants is the same as saying X to the negative seven.
And again this is exactly what we did in the last problem where we brought down the ax to the negative
four.
And we brought it down as a positive x to the for this case instead of going from top to bottom we're
going from bottom to top.
But it doesn't matter if you're going either way you still have to flip the sign of the xponent.
So again to be able to bring this guy up here we can do it but we need to flip the sign of the xponent
first.
So this becomes X to the negative 7 and after you have this again it's the same process.
So we find a derivative.
Now it is in the power function form.
So we can just go ahead and apply the dictator mnemonic so we bring down or dictator negative 7.
And then we have X and we substitute a less powerful leader.
So we have negative seven.
Mine is one.
So it becomes negative 7.
X to the.
So if you owe seven dollars and then you spend one more.
Now you owe $8.
Right.
And like we said before in theory this is done but it's always better to not have negative exponents.
And we're going to do the opposite of what we did initially.
So we had to bring this guy up to be able to differentiate now that we got the answer we're going to
bring this guy down as to not have negative exponents.
So the negative 7 stays on top
and then we're going to bring down this ax to the negative.
And to do that we just flip the sign of the exponents.
So it becomes positive 8.
And this is our answer.
That's it.
Remember if you get a function in this weird form where the x to the N is in the bottom just bring it
up to the top by flipping the sign get your derivative and if you still have a negative exponent at
the end as part of your answer go ahead and bring it down by again flipping the sign of the exponent.
All right and finally let's do one more that has a fraction so find f prime of X if f of x equals X
to that 3 over 4.
All right.
So I'll let you pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so were you able to do this.
This problem is going to be hard if you do not remember how to add and subtract fractions.
So let's go over this step by step.
So we're going to find the derivative and again the mnemonic does not change because it's a fraction.
It's always the same thing.
So we bring down a dictator three over four
and then we have X and then on the top we have three over four and substitute by a less powerful leader
minus one.
So the big question here is what is three over four minus one.
Right.
So if you didn't get this here's how you do it.
Remember that to add and subtract fractions you need to have the same bottom.
All right.
If not you cannot work with adding and subtracting fractions.
So how do we do this.
Well first of all this one doesn't even have a bottom.
So we'll add one and the bottom is literally 1.
Remember we have a number that number is the same as that number over 1.
So for example 3 is the same as 3 over 1 7 is the same as 7 over 1 also one is the same as 1 over 1.
So now we have a fraction of this right and a fraction of this right.
Now they don't have the same bottom.
So how do we make them have the same bottom.
What we do is we look at the bottom of this fraction and then we multiply both the top on the bottom
of the other fraction by the bottom of this one.
So what we do is look at the bottom of this fraction and say OK.
So to get to 4 from this one by what number do I need to multiply this one.
And the answer obviously is by 4 right.
Because if you multiply this one by four we're going to have the same bottom that this one does.
So we're going to multiply this by four and remember fractions.
Whatever you do to the bottom you have to get to the top or whatever you do to the top you have to do
to the bottom.
All right.
So we're going to multiply both top and bottom by four.
And that is going to give us the Reginald 3 over 4
Mine is.
So now we have 1 times 4 and ones I was 4 for the other fraction.
So it's four over 4 right.
And then remember that to subtract fractions we keep the same bottom.
So that's not going to change it's still going to be four.
And then we work with the top.
Right.
So it's going to be three minus four.
That's going to give you negative 1.
All right.
That is it.
So again for you to work with fractions adding or subtracting.
They need to have the same bottom.
So we went ahead and multiplied this fraction here by four on both top and bottom so that it has the
same bottom as this one here.
Now we have three over for minus four over for the bottom stays the same.
When you're adding or subtracting fractions and you just work with the top so the tops are three minus
four.
That gives negative one and our result here is negative one over four so going back here we have that
3 over 4.
But then we have access to the negative 1 over 4.
And by the way again we have a negative exponent.
So just like we did in the last problem.
Let's go ahead and bring it down so that 3 is already at the top.
So we don't move that at all.
But then we have a four in the bottom.
And remember we're bringing down this guy to the bottom.
So to bring down this guy to the bottom the x to the negative one over four we need to flip the sign
of the exponent.
So this becomes X to the one over for.
All right.
So we just brought it down by flipping the sign of the exponents and let's do one more thing.
I know this problem is a little bit long but we just have one more step to do so we have three over
four.
And then remember what we talked about where if you have X to a fraction elevated to a certain fraction
then you can change that and put it in for form.
So the way you do that is you keep the x to the one an X so the one is just X so we don't mark this
one.
And then you take the fourth route.
Right.
So let me repeat that again.
You keep the x to the top the top in this case is 1 so we don't market.
And then you do the root using the bottom as your root.
So the bottom here is four.
So we're going to take the fourth route and you indicate that right here.
All right.
This is your final answer.
And in theory this is an answer as well.
However professors would like to see that you actually take it to the next level and simplify it as
much as possible.
So again whenever you have either a negative exponents you have to bring it down or bring it up so that
it's positive.
Depending on where it is initially and after that if you still have a fraction as an exponent then you
need to go ahead and converted to a root and that is how we got this answer over here.
That is it for power rule.
Again not a hard thing.
It's actually very easy.
You can get a little bit more complicated with fractions or negative exponents but at the end of the
day it's all the same.
You bring down your dictator and you substitute by a less powerful leader.
That is it for the power rule.
I'll see you in the next tutorial.